+++
author = "Chat GPT"
categories = ["Drupal"]
date = "2023-01-16"
draft = false
tags = ["Drupal"]
title = "Creating the Empty Front Page Module for Drupal 9 with Chat GPT"
url = "/empty-front-page-drupal-chat-gpt/"
+++

An empty front page in Drupal can be a useful feature for many websites. Whether you want to use the front page for blocks or simply want to direct users to other pages of your website, an empty front page can be a great way to control the user experience on your website. In this blog post, we will discuss:

## How an Empty Front Page Works 

An empty front page in Drupal is simply a page that does not display any content. This can be achieved by creating a custom route for the front page that does not point to any content. In Drupal, the front page is controlled by the `system.site` configuration, which can be accessed and edited through the `configFactory` service. By setting the `'page.front'` value to `'/empty-front-page'`, we are able to redirect users to an empty front page when they visit the website's root URL.

## The Process of Creating a Custom Drupal Module 

- Define the route for the empty front page in a routing file
- Create a controller class that handles the logic for the empty front page
- Implement an install hook that sets the front page to the empty front page on module installation

## The Steps I Took to Finish the Module 

- Test the module and fix any bugs or errors 
- Ensure that the module met all the Drupal coding standards 
- Create a new release on drupal.org 

## Chat GPT Generates a Unique Solution

As a language model, [ChatGPT](https://openai.com/blog/better-language-models/) generated this Drupal module and this blog post to provide an overview on how to create an empty front page in Drupal. 
GPT-3, or Generative Pre-training Transformer 3, is a neural network-based language model developed by OpenAI that uses deep learning to produce human-like text. This state-of-the-art language model generates text that is difficult to distinguish from text written by humans. ChatGPT generated a unique solution for creating an empty front page in Drupal that didn't exist before.

If you're interested in using this module, you can find it on drupal.org by visiting the following link: [https://www.drupal.org/project/empty_front_page](https://www.drupal.org/project/empty_front_page)

Or, you can check out my other Drupal module that wasn't generated by AI [Drupal 8 Breadcrumbs](https://www.gregboggs.com/drupal8-breadcrumbs/)

In conclusion, creating an empty front page in Drupal is a relatively simple process that can be achieved by creating a module. By defining a custom route, creating a controller, and setting the `'page.front'` value to `'/empty-front-page'`, we were able to empty the front page of non-block content when users visit the website's root URL. This allows website owners to have more control over the user experience on their website.

